## Lesson 3: (Snake)
----

### Alright, ready for something harder?

Let's try to make the game of Snake.

Here's the initial setup:

    breed [ heads head ]
    breed [ tails tail ]

    globals [ score ]

    patches-own [ seconds-to-live ]

    to setup
      
      ;; clear everything
      clear-all
      reset-ticks
      set score 0
          
      ;; change all patches to shades of black
      ask patches [ reset-color ]
      
      ;; create the head of the snake
      create-heads 1
      ask heads [
        set heading 0
        set shape "face happy"
        set size 1
        set color blue
      ]

    end

    to reset-color
      set pcolor random-float 2
    end

    ;; TODO on step 1
    ;; fill in the instructions to make the snake head move north, south, west, and east
    ;; ==============
    to north
    end

    to west
    end

    to east
    end

    to south
    end
    ;; ==============

    to create-fruit
      ;; TODO on step 2
      ;; create fruit randomly on the screen. 
      ;; Don't make more than 'fruit-max' fruit, though.
    end

    to eat-fruit
      ;; TODO on step 3
      ;; when the snake head is on a fruit, it should eat the fruit.
      ;; the fruit should disappear and the score should then go up by 1.
    end

    to extend-tail
      ;; TODO on step 4
      ;; the tail should be extended by 1 every time the snake eats a fruit
    end

    to eat-tail
      ;; TODO on step 5
      ;; if the snake head ends up on the same patch as the snake tail, the game should end.
    end

    to go
      create-fruit
      eat-fruit
      extend-tail
      eat-tail
    end

#### But we still have a lot of steps left to fill out. Look through the "TODO" comments to finish up the program.
### You can download the complete file at [snake.nlogo](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/3480765/snake-step1.nlogo)
** Make sure to right click on the link and save it to your Desktop or other location. Possibly something like 'Save Link as' in Chrome.**

